Open Dataset License (ODsL) - Work in progress
##############################################
A work-in-progress suggestion for an open data licence suite for the future.

The ODsL project aims to provide a set of licenses for datasets and for code used to generate datasets that is more adequate than existing licenses to the consequences of current and possible future uses and applications of datasets and the code used to generate datasets.


.. contents::

.. section-numbering::


Project scope
=============

This repository is meant to house several distinct components of the ODsL project:

* A summary discussion regarding the necessity of such a set of licenses.
* A summary discussion regarding what issues such a set of licenses should address.
* A summary discussion regarding the structure and division to distinct licenses of such a set of licenses.
* A summary discussion regarding impact and adoption techniques and cooperation with relevant organizations.
* Work in progress drafts of the different licenses composing such a set of licenses.


Main points
===========

Necessity
---------

Addressed issues
----------------

Structure and division
----------------------

Impact and adoption
-------------------


Human-readable license summaries
================================

The language in these human-readable summaries (of a yet non-existent set of licenses of legal value) borrows heavilly from the human-readable summaries of the different ODbL licenses. We humbly thank the great ODbL project for the inspiration.

Open Dataset License (ODsL)
---------------------------

You are free **to share** - to copy and distribute the dataset - and **to adapt** - to modify, transform and add to the dataset - as long as you:

* **Attribute**: You must attribute any shared copy or distribution of the dataset, or any modified, transformed or extended form of the dataset, in the manner specified in the ODsL. Furthermore, for any redistribution of the dataset, or any modified, transformed or extended form of the dataset, you must make clear to others the license of the dataset and keep intact any notices on the original dataset.
* **Share-Alike**: If you publicly publish any adapted version of this dataset, or works produced from an adapted dataset, you must also offer that adapted dataset under the ODsL.
* **Keep open**: If you redistribute the dataset, or an adapted version of it, then you may use technological measures that restrict access to the dataset (such as DRM) as long as you also redistribute the same version without such measures, and give a notice of it existence in any such distribtion.

You are free **to create** - to produce works from the databasea and use it for research or development of products or services - as long as you:

* **Attribute**: You must attribute any product or services based upon transforming, processing, exposing or making avaialable the dataset, or any modified, transformed or extended form of the dataset, in the manner specified in the ODsL. 
* **Keep open**: If you conduct research using the dataset, or an adapted version of it, then you may publish any such research through any platform limiting access to the publication as long as you also publish the same publication over an open publication platform, and give a notice of it existence in any such publication.

Open Dataset Generation License (ODsGL)
---------------------------------------

You are free **to share** - to copy and distribute the code - and **to adapt** - to modify, transform and extend the code - as long as you:

* **Attribute**: You must attribute any shared copy or distribution of the code, or any modified, transformed or extended form of the code, in the manner specified in the ODsGL. 
* **Share-Alike**: If you publicly publish any adapted version of this code, you must also offer that adapted code under the ODsGL.
* **Keep open**: If you redistribute the code, or an adapted version of it, then you may use technological measures that restrict access to the code (such as DRM) as long as you also redistribute the same version without such measures, and give a notice of it existence in any such distribtion.

You are free **to use** - to run this code and use it to generate datasets - as long as you:

* **Attribute**: You must attribute any dataset generated by using this code to process publicly available data in the manner specified in the ODsGL. 
* **Share-Alike**: If you publicly publish any dataset generated by using this code to process publicly available data, you must offer that dataset under the ODsL.
* **Keep open**: If you use this code, or an adapted version of it, to generage a dataset by processing publicly available data, then you may use technological measures that restrict access to the dataset (such as DRM) as long as you also redistribute the same version of the dataset without such measures, and give a notice of it existence in any such distribtion.
